Welcome to Empties in Blender! In this video we'll be
introducing the concept of an empty. Essentially, an
empty is a null object that has no geometry.
They can be used as a handle to control other objects,
used as a parent object for a group of
objects, and we'll be dealing with that shortly. They also have many other
uses that we won't dive into, right at this moment, but will when we need them
in the course. So let's hop over into Blender!
So let's open up a new file in Blender,
and we get the default cube in the scene . Now, I'm just going to get rid of that, because
I'm not going to use that at all, and let's create our first
empty. So you add an empty much like you would do
a mesh object, so you can use the Add Menu on the 3D Editor Header
or just go Shift and A. And well, that's
fortunate, my mouse was directly over it! So an Empty, and you can see there are eight
different types of empty. Now essentially, they all do a very
similar thing, but depending on the application that you are doing, you may want a different
shape or a different type of empty, just so it's more descriptive of
the type of control you're going to have. So for
instance, if you wanted Single Arrow, if it was a directional
control you were using, you can see here that this single arrow is
great! And we can scale it up, rotate it around, and we can say the
object is pointing that way. And then, when we move the arrow around,
we can control an object based upon its direction, very very
powerful. So there are lots of different options for your empty, but
essentially you go into the Add Menu and go ahead and
add an Empty. Now, you cannot create any geometry
from that, there's no editing them in that sense,
but you can use them later on to control lots of different things
and we'll be doing that very soon with our chess set.
Alright, so in the spirit of keeping it lean, we need to do some
things now! We need to append the bishop into our chess scene to see what it looks like, as
a whole. Check everything is in the right proportion,
and then, start filling up our board. We're going to create the white
pawns. Link duplicate our bishops and pawns. That's important,
rather than just duplicating, because we want it to apply across
any changes we make, we want them to apply across the bishops
that we made and the pawn, so we don't have to repeat ourselves. And then, we'll get on
to managing our models in this scene!
Let's hop over into Blender!
Alright, so we're done with this, for the moment! Let's go
and open up our chess scene! So it should be in my recents.
Yep, Chess Scene! And this is where we left it before,
so go ahead and open up your Chess Scene.blend now, where we brought
our primary white pawn in. Alright, let's go and
append our bishop. So we're going to go File,
Append, and go find your Low
Poly Bishop, and in Object, we want to select the
Low Poly Bishop. There we go, that's in our scene! Let's
just move that about. I'm going to constrain it to the X, Y axis, so it doesn't disappear
through the floor, by holding down Shift and Z. I'm just going to pop
it next to our pawn, zoom in a little, and have a look at it in context.
Excellent! That looks really good! OK,
so now we've got that in there! We need a duplicate of
this, and we need another seven duplicates of our pawn.
Now, before we go ahead and start
messing around with our pawns and duplicating them lots,
I want to show you a really neat trick! Well it's not really a trick, it's an
operation that will save you a load of time, later on when you're doing
very repetitive tasks where an array modifier
might not be of use to you. So for instance, if we wanted to duplicate
this pawn and it was a linked duplicate, of course, we'd do
Alt and D, and we have our pawn here.
Now, if I just lock that to the X, Y axis and just place it
down there, for instance. If I was more accurate, it would be
better, so I can look down here on the Vector
where it is, and probably 6 and
-6. There we go, smack bang in the middle of
that square now! If I simply hold down
Shift, at the same time as R, it repeats the
last operation. So Shift and R will lay down another
linked pawn, and again, we'll do another
linked pawn. And you can do that as many times as you like, it's a very powerful
operation.
OK guys, it's challenge time! I'd like you to fill
out the board! So remember to link duplicate the pawns
and two bishops, only making the white pieces,
at the moment. We'll do something, later on, to create all of the black ones. Now,
place them in the right starting position on the board. Now, you may
have to refer to reference material, in order to make sure the board's at the right
orientation for us. And then, finally create an empty
called white pieces. Pause the video now and give
that a go! OK guys, welcome back!
Let's hop straight back over into Blender!
Alright, so I've duplicated down here, and I don't want to
do that, in this case. So fortunately, I've got some undo buffer I can exploit.
Now, I know that this pawn was placed exactly
in the right place, so we're mucking about with it, I think. Let's just
go up here. No not quite, but I can
set it back to 0 and 0 here,
and then, it's right bang in the middle of the board. Then, I can turn on Snapping, because
we're using whole units, and I can move it to the right position here
and down a little so it's around here. Before I go any
further though, I know that, from reference material, that
the white side of the board has the black square in the left
corner and a white square in the right corner, so that
would be this way around or that way around. So
at the moment, I'm about to set it up playing across the wrong way on the board.
I'm going to move that down to there and across to here,
and that should be snack bang in the middle, whole numbers here, exactly what
I want to see over in the Transform. Alright, so the
next thing I want to do is Duplicate Linked, this pawn here.
So that's Alt and D, and there you go, he's linked. And I can
see that the Z is
changing, down in the lower-left, so I do want to lock the Z axis so it's not
moving, and I just want to place it there! Brilliant! Now, to do
the next step, I'm simply going to repeat that operation by holding down
Shift and R. OK, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6. Perfect! Of course,
what we're looking at here is a couple of, in the Outliner here, there's
lots of corrections to do. So perhaps before I
do the repeating, I should have renamed it, so fortunately,
with the undo thing, we can do that relatively quickly. I'm just
going to name that White Pawn, for the moment, I'm going to rename it.
Then, I'm going to duplicate it, lock it to the Z axis, and move it across.
Then, I'm going to hold down Shift and R to repeat that process.
That's much better! All the way down to there.
Brilliant! And then finally, we can do the bishop again. Now, I'm not quite sure where
the bishop is, so again, I'm just going to lock it to whole numbers here. I'm going to type
in 0, 0, and 0 there.
That appeared above the board or I've managed to type 9, that's not very cleaver
of me, it's next to 0, of course. And there we go, so it's
0, 0, 0. Now, with Snapping turned on and Increments, we can move
that down and... Ooh, where does that go? It goes there, doesn't it?
Knight, rook, knight, bishop. That's fine! And goes
back one, and then, again, a linked duplicate,
locked to the Z axis, move it across to there, and
perfect! So that chess board's really coming on now with the pieces on it,
and we've got all of our stuff setup. Now, this hierarchy
along here is starting to get a bit messy. I wonder if there's something we can do about that?
And speaking about the hierarchy, I have noticed that I don't have an empty...
Yeah, ooh, I almost forgot that bit of the challenge! So of course, I need to go
to Add, Empty. Now, I've got a choice of empties here, and I'm not quite
sure which one I'm going to pick. I think, for the purpose of this, I am
simply going to pick a Plane Axis. It doesn't really matter,
it's not going to be much in the way of any use to us. And where
it's positioned, we can sort that out later. We do need to name it though,
so I'm going to rename that, and I'm going to name it White
Pieces. There we go! So that's all ready for us later on!
Now, we will deal with this hierarchy and organize this a bit
in the next couple of lectures, so don't worry about that for the moment. But what I would like
to see is how you guys are getting on, so please share your results, so far,
in the discussions, and I will see you in the next lecture! Take
care!